---
title: "Salt Calculator project"
date: 2025-07-28 00:00:00 +0100
categories: [Practice]
tags: [Coding]
image: pages/Salt/Salt_calculator.png
---

<h2>Next JavaScript project - calories and salt calculator</h2>

Here we go!<br><br>
This one is a special request. For my beloved wife. Usual calculators can count calories etc, but lack salt inside products. So I made a separate one, including salt. The benefit of it is having database of the products you actually use - from the local grocery store. Biedronka forever :)<br><br>

[TRY IT HERE]({% link pages/Salt/Salt.html %})

<br><br>

It is not yet complete, but already working well. I have plans on optimising the code, especially css.
<br><br>
There are so many lessons I learned during this build! I will share few for now:<br><br>
<ul>
<li>technical specification is a must-have! Luck me, I did not have to re-do half of the code, but it appeared the requirements and expectations were way more than I coded inititally</li>
<li>incoming data format should be agreed beforehand. Categories were not discussed and became problematic when filling the tool with real data.</li>
<li>put all your thoughts on paper before starting to write the code. You can spot dependencies and write them all down before getting lost in numerous variables and arrays.</li>
<li>html and css are the easiest part :) and take much less time than expected. Probably only for me</li>
<li>fixing bugs takes 80% of the time! When you think the project is ready it is actually 20% ready :(</li>
<li>numbers format and validation is critical!</li>
</ul>